[//]: # ( )
[//]: # (This file is automatically generated by the `jsarch`)
[//]: # (module. Do not change it elsewhere, changes would)
[//]: # (be overriden.)
[//]: # ( )
# Architecture Notes

## Summary

1. [Tagged template queries](#1-tagged-template-queries)
   1. [Debug](#11-debug)
   1. [Utils](#11-utils)
      1. [joinSQLValues](#111-joinsqlvalues)
      2. [emptySQLPart](#112-emptysqlpart)
      2. [escapeSQLIdentifier](#112-escapesqlidentifier)
      2. [sqlPart](#112-sqlpart)
      3. [buildQuery](#113-buildquery)


## 1. Tagged template queries

The `pg` module uses simple `$n` placeholder for queries values
 that are provided in an array.

This tagged template function adds a level of abstraction
 transforming the following expression:
 `sql\`SELECT * FROM users WHERE id=${userId}\`` with `userId=1` }
 into `{ text: 'SELECT * FROM users WHERE id=$1', values: [1] }`
 under the hood.

Note that you can put queries in your queries 😙.

[See in context](./src/lib.ts#L279-L291)



### 1.1. Debug

Run your process with the `DEBUG='pgsqwell'` env var
 to log every built queries during its execution.

[See in context](./src/lib.ts#L5-L9)



### 1.1. Utils

To avoid dependencies injections, this module provides
 a few useful utils.

[See in context](./src/lib.ts#L53-L57)



#### 1.1.1. joinSQLValues

Allow to create that kind of requests easily:
```ts
sql`SELECT * FROM users WHERE id IN (${joinSQLValues([1, 2])})`
```

[See in context](./src/lib.ts#L59-L65)



#### 1.1.2. emptySQLPart

Allow to create queries with empty condition branches:
```ts
sql`
SELECT * FROM users${
  env.BY_PASS_CHECKS ?
  sqlPart` WHERE role = 'admin'` :
  emptySQLPart
}`
```

[See in context](./src/lib.ts#L181-L192)



#### 1.1.2. escapeSQLIdentifier

Sometime, you need to  set a SQL identifier dynamically.
That function allow you to ensure you won't create a
 SQL injection issue:
```ts
sql`
SELECT * FROM users ${escapeSQLIdentifier(
  env.ROLE_FIELD
)} = 'admin'`

⚠️ You should NOT use it until you are forced to by
 some kind of black magics.
```

[See in context](./src/lib.ts#L195-L209)



#### 1.1.2. sqlPart

Allow to create queries sub parts conditionally:
```ts
sql`SELECT * FROM users WHERE id IN (${
  env.BY_PASS_CHECKS ?
    sqlPart`SELECT id FROM users` :
    sqlPart`SELECT id FROM users WHERE role = ${'admin`}
)})`
```

[See in context](./src/lib.ts#L214-L224)



#### 1.1.3. buildQuery

Allow to build a query from its parts and values. More
 usefull for debug since query object can be put in your
 favorite SQL client as is. See `postgresql-service` for
 an example of its support.
```

[See in context](./src/lib.ts#L237-L244)

